# Policy on Recognition of Educational Institutions and Associated Email Domains

## 1. Purpose

This policy sets out the criteria by which an organisation may be
recognised as an **educational institution**, and the basis on which an
**email domain** may be considered to belong to such an institution, for
the purposes of accessing services, benefits, or entitlements restricted
to the education sector.

## 2. Definition of an Educational Institution

An *educational institution* is defined as:

> **An organisation whose primary purpose is the provision of education,
> and which operates within or in relation to the United Kingdom under a
> recognised legal or regulatory framework.**

This includes: - Early years settings registered with the appropriate
regulatory authority (e.g. Ofsted or the Care Inspectorate) - Schools
maintained by or registered with a local authority, academy trust, or
the Department for Education - Independent schools registered with the
appropriate national body - Further education colleges and sixth-form
colleges established or designated under the *Further and Higher
Education Act 1992* - Higher education institutions recognised or listed
by relevant UK funding or regulatory bodies (e.g. the Office for
Students, Scottish Funding Council) - Government-approved apprenticeship
or training providers delivering regulated qualifications

Organisations operating outside these categories may be considered on a
case-by-case basis if they can demonstrate a statutory or contractual
role in delivering recognised education.

## 3. Definition of an Educational Email Domain

An *educational email domain* is defined as:

> **An email domain used primarily by a recognised educational
> institution for the purpose of official communication.**

This includes but is not limited to: - Domains ending in **`.ac.uk`**,
reserved for recognised higher education and research institutions -
Domains ending in **`.sch.uk`**, allocated to individual schools -
Domains used by further education colleges or multi-academy trusts
registered with Jisc or another recognised registrar - Custom domains
(e.g. `@schoolname.org.uk`, `@college.edu`) where: - The domain is
demonstrably associated with the institution (e.g. listed on its
official website) - The organisation meets the definition of an
educational institution under this policy

## 4. Recognition and Discretion

The recognition of any organisation as an educational institution, and
of any domain as an educational domain, is **entirely discretionary**.
We are not under any obligation to recognise: - An organisation whose
primary purpose is the provision of education - An email domain that may
appear to be associated with such an organisation

We may decline to recognise an institution or domain for any reason,
including but not limited to: - Evidence that the domain or institution
has been used to abuse or circumvent the services provided by Nutshell -
Inclusion of the organisation or any associated individuals on UK
government sanctions lists - Inability to verify the authenticity or
eligibility of the domain or institution - Any other concern deemed
relevant by Nutshell in its sole discretion

The list of recognised domains and institutions is maintained solely for
the purposes of administering access to our services and may be amended
at any time without notice.

## 5. Review

This policy will be reviewed periodically to ensure continued alignment
with relevant law, regulation, and operational requirements.
